Annuals, Perennials, and Biennials 
Before you can successfully grow any plant, it's essential to understand its life cycle. Annuals are plants that complete their lifecycle (seed to flower) in a single growing season and then die; therefore they have to be planted new each year. Perennials are plants that come back year after year, while biennials take two growing seasons (years) to complete their life cycle. Biennials do not flower the first year, but flower the second year, set seed, and then die.

Bolting
Bolting occurs when a gardener does not harvest their crop, and the plants move past the peak edibility stage and into a flowering and seed production phase. For example, lettuces and cabbages should be harvested when the head is large and still firm, but if you allow them to continue their growth cycle, the heads will open up and a tall flower stalk will grow

Companion Planting
If you aren't in the know about companion planting, now's the time to learn. Companion planting means planting different crops near each other because they benefit one another. This can help bring in pollinators, maximize planting space, or increase crop productivity. For example, planting marigoldsa around a garden helps repel garden pests while attracting pollinators.

Dormancy
According to Enflield, perennial plants (including trees and shrubs) will go through a period of little or no growth, also known as dormancy. For most plants this is during the cold winter months. For many of these plants, a cold dormant period is required in order to flower the following season. If you live in a tropical area that doesn't experience cold temperatures, dormancy usually occurs during the dry season

Full Sun, Part Sun, and Partial Shade
If you aren't planting your flowers in the right kind of sun, there's a good chance they won't grow. Full sun refers to an area that receives, or a plant that needs, at least six hours or more of direct sunlight daily. Partial sun and partial shade refer to plants that need between four to six hours of sun per day. While they are often used interchangeably, part sun puts greater emphasis on the amount of sun needed, while part shade usually refers to plants or areas that need or provide some relief from intense afternoon sun.

Germination
According to Landercasper, germination is the moment the seed ends its dormant state and begins to metabolize, divide cells, and begin its growth cycle. Germination is most often referred to as a percentage. Most companies test their seeds before offering them for sale and write on the package the germination percent. This is the expected number of the seeds in the packet that are actually viable, healthy seeds. Good seeds are generally in the high 90th percentile
    